

1 
 
 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Consular Affairs Division 
Guidelines for the attestation of documents 
 
The  main  responsibility  of  the  Authentication  Section  of  the  Consular  Affairs  Division  is to 
attest the certificates and documents presented by you as true and genuine documents  on 
behalf  of  the  Government of  Sri  Lanka.  Documents  presented  by  you will  be  attested  only 
after duly ascertaining the genuineness and the credibility of such documents. 
 
Strict  adherence  to  the  following  instructions  and  guidelines will  facilitate  efficient  and 
effective service that is anticipated by the Division. Please note that the documents which 
are not in keeping with the requirements will not be accepted for Attestation. 
 
General Facts: 
 
01. Those who hand over documents for attestation should produce a valid identification 
document. Only the following documents of identity will be accepted by this Division. 
 
 National Identity Card issued by Department of Registration of Persons, Sri Lanka
 Valid Passport issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration of Sri Lanka
 Valid Driving License issued by the Department of Motor Traffic of Sri Lanka
 Foreign  applicants  needed  to  produce  the  valid  Passport  issued  by  the authorized 
agency of his/her own country. (Fees charged for foreign applicants will apply)
 
N.B. - Sri Lankan Citizens who hold dual citizenship in another country should produce any of 
above  valid  Sri  Lankan  Identification  document  to  obtain  services  under  the  Sri Lankan fee 
category. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2 
 
02. The holders of certificates who need to get their certificates attested are expected to  hand 
over such certificates to the Authentication Section of the Consular Affairs Division in person. 
However, if the holder of the certificate is unable to present in person, a close relative may be 
sent with a letter of authorization from the certificate holder indicating: 
 
 Name in full
 National Identity Card number, and
 The Residential Address of the person who brings the certificates.
 
Third parties are permitted to submit documents belong to a single person.   
 
Additionally,  the  person  who  presents  at  the  Division  to  get  the  documents  authenticated 
should bring a copy of the passport of the certificate holder together with the letter of request. 
In the event of the certificate holder does not possess a valid passport, the letter of request 
should be signed in the presence of Grama Niladhari of the Division concerned and counter 
signed  by  the  Divisional  Secretary  concerned.  Please  note  that  the  final  decision  regarding 
the  attestation  of  such  certificates  will  be  taken  by  the  Director  General  of  the  Consular 
Affairs Division.  
 
03. For the attestation of certificates of children under 18 years of age, the legitimate guardian of 
the  child  concerned  should be  present or  a letter  of authority from  the  guardian  and  his/her 
passport  should  be  produced  by  the person  who  comes  for the  purpose  on  behalf  of  the 
child. (Instructions in number 2 above are applicable) Documents should also be produced to 
prove the parenthood /guardianship. Children need not to be brought for the purpose. 
 
The above conditions will also be applied for the applicants with the card issued from the 
Department of Examinations. 
 
04. Production of forged documents for attestation is an offence punishable by law. 
 
05. You are strongly advised NOT to pay any money to any party either to get forged documents 
attested or to attest documents expeditiously. Security surveillance cameras  cover  every 
area  of  this  building.  Please  be  informed  that  action  will  be taken  to  produce  before  law 
enforcement institutions if anyone is involved in illegal activities. 
 
 

3 
 
06. All  service  recipients  (document  owners)  are  required  to  obtain  prior  appointments  to 
authenticate their documents. The Authentication Section will be open for the General Public 
from 8.30 am-4.00 pm in weekdays, except holidays.   
 
07. As  per  the  Extra  Ordinary  Gazette  Notification  no.  2306/35  published  on  16.11.2022,  the 
charge  for  the  authentication  of  each  document  has revised  with  effect  from  01  January 
2023. 
 Rs. 1200/= for a Sri Lankan citizen 
 Rs. 3000/= for a foreign national 
 Rs.   800/=   will   be   charged   for   the   certificates   issued   by   the   Department   of 
Examinations.  (The  Department  of  Examinations  may  charge  their  service  cost  in 
addition to the above payment) 
 Rs.  8000/=  will  be  charged  for  attestation of  a  set  of  export  documents  which  are 
certified by approved Chambers of Commerce recognized by this office 
 Rs. 1200/= per document which may submitted without the Certificate of Origin 
All  the  payments  should  be made  only  by  cash  or  credit  /  debit  cards only  at  the  payments 
counters. A receipt will be issued in respect of each payment. The Applicant is responsible to 
check  the  receipt  before  leaving  the  payment  counter  to  ascertain  whether  the  correct 
amount was paid by you as per the receipt.  
 
08. Any  photocopied  document  will  NOT  be  accepted  for  attestation.  Every  document  will be 
scanned and therefore kindly refrain from producing damaged or decayed documents. 
 
09. Letters addressed to particular Institutions or Embassies will not be accepted for attestation. 
 
10. Only the original documents issued by Institutions of the Government of Sri Lanka in 
Sinhala, Tamil or English Language will be accepted for attestation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4 
 
 
11. The following procedure should be followed in attesting translated documents: 
 
11.1. The original document, the translation of which is to be attested should be produced with 
the  translation.  Contents  of  the  translated  document  should  be similar to the original 
document. 
 
11.2. A  translated  document  will  be  attested  only  if it  has  been  translated  by  a Sworn 
Translator  registered  at  the  Ministry  of  Justice. The  sworn  translator should  indicate 
clearly  in  his/her  letter  head  or  the  official  stamp  the  languages in which he/she is 
authorized to translate. Details of sworn translators registered  in  the  Ministry  of  Justice 
can be checked with the same Ministry‟s web site. 
11.3. When  a  Sinhala,  Tamil  or an English  document  is  translated  into  another foreign 
language,  the  contents  of  the  original  document  should  be  indicated  in the translated 
copy in English in the summary form. 
 
11.4. A document translated into another foreign language in the manner set out above will be 
accepted  for  attestation  only  if  the  relevant  document  had  been translated  by  a  sworn 
translator  registered at  the  Ministry  of  Justice  as  a translator competent to translate in 
that particular foreign language. 
 
11.5. If  no  sworn  translators  in  a  particular  foreign  language  have  been  registered  at the 
Ministry  of  Justice,  action  should  be  taken  to  get  the  translation  certified  as true  and 
correct by the Embassy of a country in which the relevant foreign language is treated as 
an official language. If such an Embassy is not available in Sri Lanka, the same should 
be done from the Embassy of the nearest country accredited to represent the concerned 
country  in  Sri Lanka.  In such  cases,  the  translated  document  should  be  certified by  the 
Embassy of Sri Lanka in particular nearest country. 
 
11.6. Applicants are encouraged to get the documents that are issued by the Registrar 
General‟s Department translated by sworn translators of that department itself. 
 
12. Inconveniences  that  may  be  caused  to  you  as  well  as  the  members  of  the  staff  can be 
minimized  by  informing  the  relevant  officers  clearly  and  precisely  the  documents that  are 
needed to be attested at the time of handing over the documents. It is your responsibility to 
note your Name, Mobile Phone Number and e-Mail address correctly at the time of obtaining 
appointment and re-confirm that information by checking it at the computer monitor. Please 
note that this information cannot be corrected after attestation. 
 

5 
 
 
13. An identical number issued for each document attested under the Electronic Document 
Attestation System and all embassies will download all attested documents  through  a 
secured  electronic  channel  for  their  onward  actions. It  is needed to  produce  your  original 
documents along with the electronically attested document to the Embassies concerned. 
 
14. Any  document  issued  by  a  foreign  authority  of  agency  will  accept  for  attestation ONLY  IF 
such document is attested by the Sri Lanka Diplomatic Mission of that particular country or by 
the Diplomatic Mission representing that country in Sri Lanka. (Please refer the figure) 
 
 
15. Inconveniences caused to you and to the institution can be minimized by checking your copy 
of  the  attested  documents,  original  documents  and  paying  receipts  at  the time of collecting 
the same. 
16. The attested document is valid up to one year from the date of attestation. 
 
17. The applicants may reserve online appointments via the link of “Online Consular Service” of 
the official website or through mobile Dial 225 or landline Dial 1225. 
 
Please note that the following categories of documents will be accepted only if the required 
criteria  indicated  under  each  category  of  documents  have  been  fulfilled.  Documents  which 
are not in keeping with such criteria will be rejected. 
 
NO documents  other  than  those  coming  under  the  following  categories 
will  be  accepted  for  attestation.  You  are  kindly  requested Not to  make 
claims  for  the  attestation  of  documents  which  cannot  be  accepted  for 
attestation.  

6 
 
1. Certificates of Births, Marriages and Deaths 
 
 The Birth, Marriages and Death certificates issued prior to 01.01.2008 will be accepted to 
attestation only if the original document obtained from the original registry or the data 
system of the District Registrar‟s Office of the Divisional Secretariat and certified by the 
District Registrar either on 01.01.2008 or thereafter. It  is  necessary  to  note  that  the 
meaning  of  „Original  Copy‟  is  NOT  the  document handed  over  to  the  applicant  by  the 
Registrar  who  registers  the  Birth,  Marriage  or Death  at  the  time  of  the  incident  occurred. 
BUT the certified true copy issued by the District Registrar which is obtained from the Data 
Base  or  Official  Registry  after  the Birth, Marriage or Death registered at the office of the 
District Registrar. (The document issued at the time of registering Birth, Marriage or Death, 
could be considered for attestation if, the document has been re-certified by the District 
Registrar as a true copy.)

 Documents pertaining to „Nil Results‟ of  search  will  be  accepted  for  attestation  only after 
ascertaining that such data had not been recorded in a register in any District Registrar‟s 
Office or in the Central Record Room of the Registrar General‟s Department   at 
Maligawatte in Colombo. It should be certified that the second copy of the document also 
not available.

 Muslim Divorce Certificates should be certified by an authorized officer of the Divisional 
Secretariat relevant to the Quasi Court which the divorce order issued.
 
2. Certificate for Confirmation of the Unmarried Status 
 
 An  affidavit for  unmarried  status  can  be  presented only  by  the prospective  applicant who 
intends  to  get  married,  his/her  mother  or  father  and  brothers  and  sisters  of  the same 
family. It is essential to indicate the passport number of the prospective applicant in the 
affidavit. (Unmarried certificates for foreign nationals are not accepted for attestation)
 
 Only  the  facts  that  the  prospective  applicant  for  marriage  has  remained  unmarried  in Sri 
Lanka, no legal obstacles to getting married and the family relationships of the prospective 
applicant  for  marriage  should  be  included  in  this  affidavit.  This  affidavit should declare  in 
front of an Attorney at Law or Justice of Peace.
 
 The affidavit should be certified by the Registrar of the Supreme Court if it signed by an 
Attorney-at-Law or by an authorized officer of the Justice of Peace Branch of the Ministry 
of Justice if a Justice of Peace has signed it. 
 
 A  true  copy  of  the  valid  passport  belonging  to  the  prospective  applicant  for  marriage 
should be presented with the affidavit.
 
 Sri  Lankan  citizens  who  are living  abroad  could  declare  this  affidavit  at  the  Sri Lankan 
Diplomatic Mission of such country, in front of an authorized officer under the Consular 
Functions Act.
 
 Specimen of such affidavit could be downloaded from the web site of this office or could be 
copied from the notice board of this office.


7 
 

3. Police Clearance Reports issued by the Police Head Quarters 
 
 All the police clearance reports should  be  made  on the  format  of Police  Head Quarters 
and any other documents in letter heads will NOT be accepted.

 Applicant‟s name, National Identity Card number, Date, mailing address, the period covered 
by  the  Police  Clearance  report,  signature  of  the  authorized  officer  of  the Police  Head 
Quarters and his official seal should be clearly and correctly indicated in the police clearance 
Report.
 
4. Police Reports issued by Police Stations 
 
 All the Police reports should be made on form „Police 423‟ and any other documents in 
letter heads will NOT be accepted.
 Original copy of the receipt on form „General 172‟ issued in respect of the payment made 
to the Police Station to collect the Police Report should be presented.
 
 Applicant‟s  name,  National  Identity  Card  number,  Date,  mailing  address,  the  period 
covered by the Police report, signature of the officer-in-charge of the police and his official 
seal should be clearly and correctly indicated in the Police Report.
 
5. Police Reports issued by Foreign Countries 
 
 Foreign  Police  Reports  obtained  under  the  intervention  of  the  Consular  Division  of this 
Ministry  will  be  accepted  for  attestation  only  if  such  report  attested  by  the  Sri Lankan 
Diplomatic Mission of that country or under the certification of a staff officer of the 
Consular Division.
 
 Foreign Police Reports obtained by the applicants personally will accept for attestation 
ONLY IF those documents attested by the Sri Lankan Diplomatic Mission of that country 
or attested by the Diplomatic Mission representing such country in Sri Lanka. Documents 
which not satisfy this criterion will send back to the Sri Lankan Diplomatic Mission of the 
issuing  country  for  verification  and  certification  prior  to attestation.  Please  note  that  the 
duration for this effort is beyond the control of the Consular Division.
 

8 
 
6. Passports 
 
 ONLY  the  Photo  and  information  page,  Alterations  and  Observations  pages  of  the 
Passports  issued  by  the  Department  of  Immigration  and  Emigration  are  accepted  for 
certify as a True Copy.

 Original  Passport  must  produce  along  with  this  document  and if  original  passport  not 
available,  a  copy  certified  by  the  Department  of  Immigration  and  Emigration  should 
produce for certification. 
 
7. Attestation of Police Reports on missing passports 
 
 Police  reports  on  missing  passports  will  be  attested  only  if  the  relevant  endorsement 
regarding the missing passport has been made in the new passport by the Department of 
Immigration and Emigration.
 
 Original copy of the receipt on form „General 172‟ issued in respect of the payment made 
to the Police station to collect the relevant report should be presented.

8. Citizenship Certificate 
 
 A certified true copy obtained from the Department of Immigration and Emigration within 
three months period should produce along with the original Citizenship Certificate issued 
by that Department.
 
9. Driving Licences 
 
 Only the extract of information issued by the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic will 
be attested.

 Relevant driving license should also be produced together with this extract.
 
 Documents  issued  by  Ceylon  Auto  Mobile  Association  should  be  certified  by  the 
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic before the submission for attestation.
 
10.National Identity Cards 
 
 Only the original letter issued by the Commissioner for the Registration of Persons will be 
attested.
 
 Relevant National identity card should be presented with this letter.

9 
 
11.Medical Certificates 
 
 Medical  Certificates  will  be  attested  only  if  they  have  been  certified  by  the  Sri  Lanka 
Medical Council.
 
 Ayurvedic  Medical  certificates are  accepted  only  if  they  have  been  certified by  the  Sri 
Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Council.
 
 
12.Certificates issued by Chartered or Professional Institutions. 
 
 True copies of certificates issued by Chartered or Professional institutions incorporated by 
an Act of Parliament will be attested on being certified by the institution concerned.

 Certificates issued by Chartered or Professional Institutions established abroad have to be 
certified as true copies by the authorized local office established in Sri Lanka on behalf of 
the  institution  concerned  or  by  the Embassy  in  Sri  Lanka  representing that country for 
attestation.
 
13. Certificates issued by the Institutions established for Technical and  Vocational 
Training 
 
 Original certificate should be produced along with the certified true copy of the certificate 
certified by the institution in which the course was conducted.

 A true copy of the relevant certificate certified by the institution which has conducted the 
training  course  should  be  produced  together  with  a  letter  issued  by  the  Tertiary and 
Vocational  Education  Commission  (TVEC)  to  the  effect  that  the  institution  was  a 
registered organization when the training course was conducted.

 The  name  of  the  training  course  indicated  in  the  certificate  should  be  identical  with the 
name given in the letter issued by the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission.

14. Certificates issued by the Department of Examinations 
 
 A  system  for  online  authentication  has  been  introduced  for  applicants  to  authenticate 
certificates,  issued for GCE  O/L  and  A/L  examination held after 2001,  without  visiting  the 
Consular Division. 
    For further details;  
 
 

10 
 
 
 
Online Authentication of GCE (O/L) & (A/L) Certificates 
Process Flow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To authenticate certificates, issued for G.C.E. (O/L) and G.C.E. (A/L) examinations held prior 
to  2001  and  other  examinations  conducted  by  the  Department  of  Examinations,  applicants 
should apply through the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka at Battaramulla and those 
certificates  which are forwarded  directly  to  the Consular  Affairs  Division  by  that  Department 
will be authenticated. 
 
 Authenticated certificates or certificates issued under local category or addressed to Foreign 
Diplomatic Missions will not be accepted for authentication.  
 

15 
 
 The  card  issued  by  the  Department  of  Examinations  should  be  produced  to  the  Division. 
Rs.800/= will  be  charged  by  the  Consular  Affairs  Division  for  the  Authentication  of  each 
document.  Service  charges  of  the  Department  of  Examinations  may  have  to  be  paid  in 
addition to the above charges. 
15. School Leaving Certificates 
 
 Certificates issued  by  the  Heads  of  Government  schools  and  their translated copies can  be 
attested if necessary, provided the original copy and the translated copy are presented to this 
Division  duly  certified  by  the  Zonal Director  of Education  of  the relevant Education  Zone  to 
which the school belongs.
 
16. Certificates issued by Private/ International Schools 
 For the Attestation of certificates issued by Private / International Schools registered in the 
Ministry of Education, true copies of documents certified by heads of such schools should be 
submitted. The  documents  will  be  accepted  for  attestation  only  if they  are  certified  by  the 
Private Schools Branch of the Ministry of Education or the Zonal Education Office.
 
 Documents issued by Private / International Schools which are not registered in the Ministry 
of Education can be authorized only as certified copies. For this purpose original copies of the 
certificates  issued  by  heads  of  schools  should  be  submitted together  with  Photocopies  of 
relevant documents certified by the heads of schools and a certified true copy of the Business 
Registration of the School.
 
17. Certificates issued by religious or cultural institutions 
 
 Any  certificate  issued  by  religious  or  cultural  institution  will  accept  for  attestation ONLY  if 
such  certificate  issued  by  the  Government  Department  for  particular  subject or  such 
institution  registered  at  the  relevant  Government  Department  and  certified such information 
by the Department concerned.
 
18. Certificates issued in respect of Foreign Examinations recognized locally and 
internationally. 
 
 Certificates  issued  by  Foreign  Agencies  authorized  to  conduct  foreign  examinations which 
are recognized locally and internationally will be attested only when they have been certified 
as true copies by the local authorized office established in Sri Lanka or the Embassy in Sri 
Lanka representing the country in which the institution is located.
 
 However,  true  copies  certified  by  the  British  Council  in  respect  of  certificates  issued by 
institutions in the United Kingdom and true copies certified by the US Fulbright Commission 
in respect of certificates issued by institutions in U.S.A, will be considered for Attestation.

16 
 
 
19. Service Certificates of Private Institutions 
 
 Service  Certificate  issued  by  a  Private  sector  institution  in  respect  of  employment  in the 
Private  Sector  can be authenticated only  as  a  true  copy  of  a  service  certificate and for  that 
purpose a Photocopy  certified by the head of the institution concerned should be submitted 
with the original document.

 Original document of the letter of appointment to the position held, original documents to 
prove promotions and salary reports of the last three months of employment  or  documents 
relating  to  the  contribution  to  Employees  Provident  Fund (EPF) and Employees Trust  Fund 
(ETF) should also be submitted. 
 
 In the event of the failure to submit the formal letter of appointment or other documents, 
original copy of the service certificate along with the true copy of the service  certificate 
certified  by  the  head  of  the  institution  and  a true  copy  of  the Business  Registration  of  the 
organization, certified by the Divisional Secretary of the area or the issuing authority should 
be submitted. 
 
20. Degree certificates awarded by Local Universities 
 
 Original  Degree  Certificate together  with  the required  number  of  true  copies  certified by  the 
Registrar  of  the  relevant  University  should  be  submitted  and  the  degree certificate  will  be 
attested only after the confirmation of the documents through the University
 
 The period that will be taken by the relevant University is a matter which is out of control of 
this institution and inquiries in this regard could be made from the University concerned.
 
21. Degree Certificates awarded by Foreign Universities 
 
 For  the  attestation  of  degree  certificates  obtained  from  a  foreign  University,  the original 
document together with the required number of copies certified correct either by the Sri Lanka 
Embassy in the country concerned or the Embassy of the country concerned established in 
Sri Lanka should be presented.
 
 However,  true  copies  certified  by  the  British  Council  in  respect  of  certificates  issued by 
Universities in the United Kingdom and true copies certified by the US Fulbright Commission 
in respect of certificates issued by Universities in the U.S.A. will be considered for attestation.

17 
 
 
22. Affidavits or Power of Attorney 
 
 ONLY  Affidavit  or  Power  of  Attorney  declared  or  signed  by  Sri  Lankan  Citizen  or  Sri Lanka 
Corporate Citizen will accept for attestation. Sri Lanka Corporate citizen should  produce 
supporting  documents  to  prove  such  information.  (E.g.:  Form  20 document certified  by the 
Registrar of Companies etc.)

 An Affidavit or a Power of Attorney if prepared by an Attorney-at-Law, the Registrar of  the 
Supreme  Court  should  certify.  If  affidavit  signed  by  a  Justice  of  Peace,  it should be 
countersigned by the J.P. Division of Ministry of Justice.
 
 Relevant official documents should be produced to substantiate the facts given in an Affidavit 
or  a  Power  of  Attorney.  In  the  event  of  relevant  official  documents  not  being produced  to 
substantiate the facts contained in an Affidavit or a Power of Attorney such an Affidavit or a 
Power of Attorney will not be considered for attestation.

 Affidavits produced to substantiate the alterations made in identification documents issued by 
the government such as birth certificates, marriage certificates, death certificates, passports, 
driving licences, National Identity Cards etc. will be attested only if the alterations have been 
made in the original documents and certified by the issuing authority.
 
 Affidavits prepared for under age child to travel abroad through a third party except parents 
or  legal  guardians  will  be  accept  for  attest  ONLY  IF  the permission  granted to  such  third 
party by a Civil Court or Commissioner of Probation and Child Care to travel such child with 
the said third party.
 
 Any  Sri  Lankan  citizen  who  is  living  abroad  could  declare  or  sign  Affidavits  or  Power of 
Attorney  at  the  Sri  Lankan  Embassy  of  that  country,  in  front  of an  authorized officer under 
the Consular Functions Act.
 
23. Judicial documents 
 
 For  the  attestation  of  judicial  documents  original  copies  of  the  documents  should  be 
produced, all of which should be certified by the registrar of the relevant judiciary. Attestation 
will be effected only after the facts contained in the document are substantiated by the 
relevant judiciary.
 
 Divorce  certificates  will  be  attested only  on  Decree  Absolute  if  the  Decree  Absolute is 
issued. However,  Decree  Nisi  also  should  be  produced  to  this  office.  Please  note that only 
Decree Nisi will NOT be accepted for attestation.
N.B. - Time taken by the relevant judiciary is out of control of this institution and hence 
inquiries regarding the delay may be made from the judiciary concerned. 
 
 
 

18 
 
24. Child Adoption Certificates 
 
Child Adoption documents will accept for attestation only if following documents produced 
together 
 
 Adoption order issued by the District Court Judge (Form 4)
 Document  prepared  by  the  Attorney  which  declare  to  the  court,  the  willingness  of  the 
natural parents / guardians of the child (Form 2) (This should certified by the Registrar of 
the Supreme Court)
 Letter issued by the Commissioner of Probation and Childcare to the adopted parents
 Letter  issued  by  the  Commissioner  of  Probation  and  Childcare  to  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign Affairs
 Birth Certificate of the child
 Adoption certificate issued by the Registrar General
 Conformity  certificate  issued  under  the  article  23  of  Hague  Convention  (This  is  not 
required if both adopted parents are Sri Lankans)
 
25. Grama Niladhari Certificates 
 Only  the  information  regarding  the  residence  and  dependents  can  be  substantiated 
through certificates issued by Grama Niladhari. 
 
 The information provided by the Grama Niladhari on form „DS 4‟ which  includes  the 
stamp  of  the  respective  Divisional  Secretariat will  be  considered  for  authentication.  Grama 
Niladhari  certificates, without  the  stamp  of  the  respective  Divisional  Secretariat  and  the 
name stamp of the Grama Niladari will not be accepted for Attestation.  
 
26. Training Certificates issued by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment 
(SLBFE) 
 
 Training  Certificates  issued  by  SLBFE  will  accept  for  attestation  ONLY  IF  produce  a 
certified copy from the SLBFE along with the original certificate.
 
27.   Licences or documents issued by various Public Institutions under certain 
statutory authorities. 
 Original copy of a document or a license issued by a Public Institution under statutory 
authority vested in it should be presented for attestation together with a true copy 
certified by the issuing authority.
 
 Such  documents  or  licenses  will  be  attested  only  after  getting  the  contents  confirmed by 
the authority concerned.
 
N.B. - The time that will be taken by the Public Institution is out of control of this institution. 
Inquiries regarding the delay may be made from the Public Institution concerned. 

19 
 
 
 
 
28. Export documents 
 
 Export  Documents  are  accepted  for  attestation  if  the  Certificate  of  Origin  (CO)  issued 
and stamped by a Chamber of Commerce which registered at this Ministry. 
 
 Rs.8000/= will  be  charged  for  attestation  of  a set  of  Export  Documents.  Each  set  of 
separate  Certificate  of  Origin  will  be  charged  separately.  Following  documents  may 
include to a set of Export Document for each CO.  
 
 Certificate of Origin (CO) 
 Invoice/Commercial Invoice 
 Bill of Lading 
 Health Certificates 
 Laboratory Certificates  
 Analysis Reports 
 Phytosanitary Certificates 
 Quarantine Certificates   
 Party‟s Copy 
In  addition,  following  documents  will  accept  for  attestation  separately  without  a  Certificate  of 
Origin and Rs. 1200/= will be charged for each document attested separately 
.  
 Health Certificates 
 Laboratory Certificates  
 Analysis Reports 
 Phytosanitary Certificates 
 Quarantine Certificates   
 Free Sale Certificate 
 Quality and Standard Certificates 
 Affidavits and Power of Attorneys (Must certified by the Supreme Court) 
 Party‟s Copy 
 
 
 
 
 

20 
 
 
 
29.Documents related to Business / Companies 
 
a. Certificate of Registration of a Company 
Originals with a certified true copy taken recently from Registrar of Companies or a  photo 
copy with recently paid tax receipt with the original documents should produce for attestation. 
Form-20 certified by the Company Registrar is also needed as supporting document to verify 
the signatory authority of the company. 
 
b. Certificate of Individual Business Registration 
To attest the Certificate of Individual Business Registration, applicants needed to submit the 
original  with  the  certified  copy  issued  by  the  Divisional  Secretariat along with  the  recently 
paid cash receipts. 
 
c. Articles of Association or Board Resolutions 
To  attest  the  Articles  of  Association  of  a  Company  or  Board  Resolutions  of  a Company, 
following two options could be followed by the applicants; 
 
 Articles  of Association  of a  Company  or  Board  resolutions  of  a  company  should register 
/record  at  the  Registrar  of  the  Companies  and  certified  true  copy  of  the registered/ 
recorded document should produce for attestation.
OR 
 Applicants are needed to submit the original Articles of Association or Board Resolution 
signed   by   the   members   of   the   Board   in   front   of   the   Legal   Officer   of   the 
Company/Company  Secretary  (an  Attorney-at-Law)  along  with  the  certification  of the 
Supreme Court.
 
Note: Company Registration Certificate and the Form 20 should be submitted as 
supporting documents for both options. 
d. Form 20 
To attest the Form 20 of a Company, applicants are needed to submit a certified True copy of 
the Form 20 document issued by the Registrar of Companies. 
 
Note: Company registration certificate (Certificate of Incorporation) should be 
submitted as supporting documents 
e. Audited Accounts Reports 
Audited Accounts Reports of a company should signed by a Chartered Accountant and 
his/her authenticity must be certified by his/her licensing authority. (E.g. Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka etc.) 